Linux is a free and open source operating system based on the Unix kernel. While Ubuntu is just a distribution of Linux.
Ubuntu is a Linux based Operating System and belongs to the Debian family of Linux
.
what is localhost?
to test programs and web applications. 
localhost is a hostname that refers to the current computer used to access it.
 3000 is the port number it will communicate on.
If you access "http://localhost" in the browser, the request will not be forwarded to the internet through the router, 
but will instead remain in your own system. Localhost has the IP address 127.0. 0.1, which refers back to your own server.


influxdb:
InfluxDB is purpose-built for time series data.
InfluxDB is designed to store large volumes of time series data and quickly perform real-time analysis on that data.
no sql 



we have web application 
web application --host on 2 servers
servers in multiple location
manualy doing is very difficult--always have 2 team 
if server down means alert not come immediately
to avoid this issue ci/cd pipeline created..
contionous moni--grafana promrthus--any issue occurs --mail send





we host one app in virtual machine---promethus--time series--promql language-- fetch the data from data producing sevrr---pull data from server---one is metrics,logs
metrics--one server has capacity --cpu --cpu have capacity
log--temperature sensor--temperature generate
pressure sensor --produce sensor
datas stored in data source
not actual database
to store monitorind data
 It comprises several monitoring tools useful in a DevOps culture, such as alerting, saving time series on local disks or memory, and displaying data graphically (with Grafana)

query the data stored in data store ---graph --3 server for one application
3 server up 3 server down..
both are open source 

splunk
collect data and help to analyze data in diff ways
uses indexes to store data, and so does not require a separate database to store its information.
collect, index, organize, search and analyze any type of time-series data using Amazon Web Services (AWS).

dome9
protect multiple cloud environments by combining cloud-agnostic policy automation with cloud-native security capabilities.

kibana.

 open-source analytics and visualization tool that was created particularly to interact with Elasticsearch. 
The most common uses of Kibana are searching, viewing, and interacting with data stored internally in Elasticsearch indices.

In Kibana, advanced data analysis and visualization may be accomplished with ease by using charts, tables, and maps.






sql
max cpu utili:
from metrics time column DT 
select column:cpu aggfun max alias:cpu_max
select column:idle aggfun max alias:min_idle
group by time(
min cpu utilization

demo influxdb:
cpu usage by users:
from autogen cpu 
select field(usage _user)mean()---basically avg
groupby time($_interval)tag(host)
alias by $tag_host


alerts
from autogen cpu where host=subbu-virtual-machine
select filed(usage sys)max()
group by time(1m)fill value(null)





