grafana is visualization platform  by using that users can build multiple dashboards into single dahboard
users can apply differnt kind of filter to dashboard like graph,stat,gauge

grafana can use with diff kind of oper sys..here i have installed grafana in ubuntu
so here i have already installed that so now i am going to check the status by giving this command
sudo systemctl grafana-server.service now grafana is in active state 
grafana support port 3000 by default..now it is connected with local host
now i just connect it with my server 
by giving  this command ip r
now it is just connected with my server 


so this is dashboard of grafana ..
before creating dashboard we need to create data source..
here i use sql influxdb cloudwatch database..we can also add database
first we are going to create datasource..now i am going to tell about influxdb
influxdb is nothing but it is time series database
store large volumes of time series data and quickly perform real-time analysis on that data.
no sql..
i have already installed telegraf and influxdb..
telegraf is agent used to collect data like cpu,memory ,disk utilization ..we need to install telegraf on the server we are going to monitor.
telegraf send data to influxdb..influxdb store the data from telegraf..
using grafana we can query the data and visualize..
now i give the name of datasource
influxdb support port 8086 by default..here influxdb and telegraf both are installed on same server..
here i give databse name as telegrf..click save and test ..now dbase connecton is ok..
here i have already created dbord of influxdb with graph ,stat ,gauge..
from query we need to choose influxdb
demo influxdb:
now i am going to find cpu usage by users:
from autogen cpu 
select field(usage _user)mean()---basically avg
groupby time($_interval)tag(host)
alias by $tag_host


same procedure for sql..for sql i have create one table and i give random values in that table
sql support port 3306 by default..
now i am going to find max cpu utilization
from metrics time column DT 
select column:cpu aggfun max alias:cpu_max
select column:idle aggfun max alias:min_idle
group by time(
min cpu utilization


for cloudwatch i create one user in aws ...i give access key and secret access key ..save test
query nee to choose cloudwatch..give region 


now we are going to create alert..if this limit reaches above this alert came to email..




sql
max cpu utili:
from metrics time column DT 
select column:cpu aggfun max alias:cpu_max
select column:idle aggfun max alias:min_idle
group by time(
min cpu utilization

demo influxdb:
cpu usage by users:
from autogen cpu 
select field(usage _user)mean()---basically avg
groupby time($_interval)tag(host)
alias by $tag_host


alerts
from autogen cpu where host=subbu-virtual-machine
select filed(usage sys)max()
group by time(1m)fill value(null)


